gemini-task/task.md, before:

gemini --prompt "
You are a documentation auditor and technical writer.

Context:
The project repository has recently added many new features, architectural changes, and refactors, but the documentation in the 'docs/' folder is outdated. Your task is to review all Markdown (.md) files in that folder and update them so they accurately reflect the current implementation of the project.

Objectives:
1. Review every .md file inside the 'docs/' folder and subfolders.
2. Compare the existing documentation with the actual project structure, code, and recent features.
3. Update the documents to match the **current state of the repository**, including:
   - new modules, services, APIs, commands, or workflows;
   - updated architecture or dependency changes;
   - newly added configurations, environment variables, or integrations.
4. Keep the **overall structure and hierarchy of each document intact** (do not rewrite everything from scratch).
5. Improve clarity and consistency: make the language simple and clear enough for **junior developers, testers, or new team members** to understand easily.
6. Ensure all examples, code snippets, and diagrams (if any) are correct and runnable.
7. Maintain existing Markdown formatting and section order unless changes are necessary for accuracy.

Style Guidelines:
- Use concise and friendly explanations.
- Use consistent technical terms.
- Keep the tone professional but approachable.
- When updating, use English technical writing best practices.
- If you detect ambiguity or missing context, add short explanatory notes (e.g., “Note: …”) to guide readers.

Deliverable:
Output the **updated Markdown text** for each file, keeping filenames unchanged.
" --source ./docs

Commit message:

fix(backend): Resolve Qdrant NullReferenceException and update appsettings
- Resolved NullReferenceException in QdrantVectorStore.QueryAsync by safely accessing embedding data.
- Updated appsettings.json to use 'OpenAI' as the EmbeddingSettings provider, aligning with valid enum values.
- Updated ChatWithAssistantQueryHandler to include fallback logic and refined intent detection.

gemini-task/task.md, after:

gemini --prompt "
You are an expert C# backend developer and AI assistant engineer.

Task:
Review the C# class 'ChatWithAssistantQueryHandler' that handles user chat requests with AI. 
Currently, it always calls the AI provider regardless of whether relevant context exists in VectorStore. 
We want to improve the logic so that:

1. If the user message is general chat / greeting / small talk, or there is no relevant context in VectorStore:
   - Do not attempt to retrieve context for RAG.
   - Call the AI provider with a special fallback prompt.
   - The fallback prompt should be friendly, concise, and safe (do not invent technical data).
   - Examples: greetings, thanks, short casual conversation.

2. If relevant context exists:
   - Continue using current RAG logic (combine context chunks with user message).

3. Optional: implement simple intent detection (greeting / small talk / question) to decide when to fallback.

Requirements:
- Produce a **C# implementation** inside 'ChatWithAssistantQueryHandler'.
- Keep the current Clean Architecture, CQRS, MediatR, ResultWrapper patterns.
- Ensure proper logging of fallback events.
- Write clear, maintainable, extensible code.
- Include comments explaining fallback logic and intent detection.

Output:
Return the **full improved C# handler code**, ready to replace the existing class.
" --source ./backend/Application/AI/Chat/Queries/ChatWithAssistantQueryHandler.cs
